PROJECT 2: ETL
GROUP NAME: 3 MUSKETEERS


1. E - WHAT WERE OUR ORIGNAL DATA SOURCES AND HOW THE DATA FORMATTED?

	We pulled our data from the following websites:
	
		Baseball defense & offensive stats: https://www.baseball-reference.com/leagues/MLB/2015.shtml#teams_standard_pitching::none
		
		Attendance by team by year:
		https://www.kaggle.com/timschutzyang/dataset1/version/1#baseballdata.csv
		
		Team Data Map Source:
		https://www.smartfantasybaseball.com/2015/09/new-tool-mlb-team-id-map/
		
		Team Payroll Data by Year:
		https://github.com/glamp/mlb-payroll-and-wins
		Data sourced from FiveThirtyEight
		
	All of our datasets were CSV files
	
	
2. T - WHAT TRANSFORMATION WAS NEEDED FOR THE DATA? (CLEANING, JOINING, ETC.)

	The offensive and defensive datasets both had many more data points than we needed, we slimmed down the stats to only 5 different stats for each. We also had to get rid of a two rows, a NaN and an average row. We also renamed the columns from the original acronyms to what the acronyms stand for (Tm to Team, SV to Saves, etc._)
	
	The Attendance by team had over 5 years of data, we were only looking for 2015 so all other years were filtered out.
	
	The Team Map Data Source contained the abbreviations commonly used for several baseball data websites. These included Fangraphs, Baseball Reference, FanDuel, DraftKings, Yahoo!, ESPN, FantasyPros, BaseballPress, Baseball Prospectus, Rotowire. We used excel formulas to update the team name list to convert to proper format, remove the MLB indicator, and remove all hyphens.
	
	Team Salary Data was taken from FiveThirtyEight research (originally scraped from Baseball Reference). We cloned the repository to our desktop and took the salary data from the mlb-payroll-and-wins CSV file, and then added that to our files. By using the "tm" indicatory, we can join the salary data with our other files using the BBREF team abbrevation.
	
	
	
3. L - Describe the final database, tables/collections and why were they choosen

	We end up with five different tables in our SQL database:
		1. Batting stats
		2. Defensive stats
		3. Attendance by team
		4. Team Acronym to team name
		5. Team Payroll Data
		
	Each database can be joined by team name/acronym. We can create all kinds of different baseball stats anaylsis vs game attendance for each team in 2015.
	
	We can load the data into SQL in order to join data across different sources, utilizing the team keys document to join on team ID or abbreviation (depending on the ID used by the specific source). The way that we have set up the team keys enables us to continuously use this as a pipeline for additional baseball data, as all major baseball data sources are listed in the document, and we can always join our new dataset on the original keys document.
	
	As an example, in our BaseballData jupyter notebook, we took the keys document and pulled the Baseball Reference Abbreviation ID from the Attendance key ID from the 2015batting.csv file and the Baseballdata.csv file, respectively.
	
	After loading the CSVs into the Jupyter Notebook, we linked the two sets of data on their team IDs, and pulled out the attendance data from the baseballdata.csv file so that we could compare attendance to the number of home runs a team hit. This join can be found in salary_bbref_schema. After some python code was added in our baseballdata jupyter notebook, we filtered the datasets down to only contain information from the 2015 season, and then joined the datasets. Now we can compare data from the different datasets.
		
		
		
